---
title: Marriage
author: James R. Bracy
layout: post
---

What would be just laws governing marriage and divorce?

For the past few decades the US has been been addressing the issue of what
marriage is. Some states recognize same-sex marriages, others do not. Why
is the state involved in such a decision though? What does it matter
what the state thinks? When a couple get married is it for the purpose of
the state? Are they thankful to the government for creating a union?

The marriage is done voluntarily, a couple choose to associate with each
other. If state sanctioned marriage did not exists, would marriage still
happen? The answer is obviously yes, marriage existed before any state
existed. Governments come and go, the idea of marriage has remained.

What of arranged marriages though? Ultimately the decision still comes
down to the couple involved. There can be a great amount of family and
social pressure on this marriage. At this point it is up to the couple
about what is more important, is it their not wanting to be married,
or is it the reputation in their family and society?

Arranged marriages also bring up the question of what is the purpose of
marriage? Does the purpose differ depending on which culture you are a
part of? I doubt that anyone will every marry for the same purpose. Even
in just the US, the purpose of the marriage is determined by those
involved. Each marriage is unique and has different goals.

So what purpose does the state have in regulating marriage? None. Unless
the rights of someone are abused, marriage deals with voluntary
personal relations. Why does the government need to regulate your
relationships?

Many religions have laws around marriage. If a religion recognizes marriage
as only between one man and women, what does it matter to the person who is
in a same-sex marriage. These are different views, everyone is entitled to
have their own views on the subject. To not have your own view would mean you
are not human.

An issue arrises with the governmental regulation of marriage. If the
government were to recognize polygamy does this mean that the
government is representing its view as truth the its subjects? What
if some do not hold this view, but yet it is law? It seems that this
is equivalent with attempting to force a specific view on the people,
and would ultimately be followed by some form of censorship. The
government does not look kindly on those who object.

This subject obviously requires more thought and is not a simple as
some think. But instead of asking "should the state allow same-sex
marriages," we should begin by asking "what role does the state have
in regulating marriage?"